Okay hello Cloud Gurus,
and welcome to this lecture.
Congratulations you're at the very end of the DNS section.
I know DNS is not the most exciting topic in the world.
But you do definitely need to know it
to be a solutions architect in real life.
So, you will definitely get Route 53 questions
on your exams.
It's probably going to be worth around four to five marks.
So, make sure you do understand it
inside out, going into your exam.
So, let's cover off what we've learned.
My Route 53 exam tips.
Now, always remember that elastic load balancers
do not have pre-defined IPv4 addresses,
you resolve to them using a DNS name.
I appreciate we haven't covered off elastic load balancers
much yet in the course.
We will get that when we move on to the
the highly available section of the course.
And ELBs, ALBs whatever it is you want to call them -
they are extremely important topic
for the Certified Solutions Architect Associate exam.
You should definitely understand the difference between
an alias record and a CNAME.
If you just remember
that Yellow Pages picture that we had up.
So we had all our A records which was just people's names.
And then their telephone numbers,
and the CNAME was that,
Bruce Wayne, or I think it was Batman.
And then it said "see Bruce Wayne".
So that's exactly how a CNAME works.
And then given the choice between an alias record
and a CNAME in an exam scenario
I would always choose alias.
Most of the time Amazon are going to be asking things like,
your naked domain name.
You need to map your naked domain name
or your zone apex record to an S3 bucket.
What should you be using a CNAME or an alias record?
Well, you want to be using an alias record.
We're going to see how to do that
in the serverless section of the course.
So some common DNS types -
we've got our Start of Authority record,
our NS records, our A records, our CNAMEs,
our MX records, and our PTR records.
And the following routing policies
are available with Route 53.
So we started off with simple routing,
we then looked at weighted routing,
latency-based routing, failover routing,
geolocation routing, geoproximity routing,
but we had to do that using the traffic flow,
and then multivalue answer routing.
We also learned all about health checks,
so you can set health checks on individual record sets.
If a record set fails a health check
it's going to be removed
from Route 53 until it passes the health check again.
And you can set up SNS notifications to alert you
if a health check has failed.
So simple routing, if you choose simple routing policy,
you can only have one record with multiple IP addresses,
and you can't have any health checks.
If you specify multiple values in a record set,
Route 53 will return the values to the users
in a random order
So here's our user, they are typing in a DNS address,
Route 53 is giving them the first record,
and then it's giving them the second record,
but we can't have a health check on that one.
Weighted routing policies,
we've got our user, they're typing in a DNS address,
and we're setting weights,
so we're sending 20% of the traffic to US-EAST-1,
and 80% of the traffic to US-WEST-1.
So that's how weighted-routing traffic works.
Latency-based routing is based on
our user's location and the latency.
So our South African user's going to visit our website,
it's behind Route 53 and essentially
they're going to get 54 milliseconds if they use US-WEST-2,
300 milliseconds if they use AP-SOUTHEAST-2.
So, of course Route 53 is going to send them
to the fastest fleet of EC2 instances
first, which is going to be EU-WEST-2.
Failover routing, this is where
we starting using our health checks.
So essentially we've got an active/passive environment.
Our active environment could be US-WEST-2,
and our passive environment could be AP-SOUTHEAST-2.
If for some reason our EC2 instances
or a region goes down,
it's going to detect this using a health check
and it's going to failover to our passive environment.
Geolocation routing allows our European customers
to be sent to our European servers,
and it allows our US customers to be sent to our US servers.
It doesn't have anything to do about latency,
it actually physically knows where our customers are,
and then it makes routine decisions based on that,
that we configure.
So that's how geolocation routing works.
Geoproximity routing, as you saw,
we could start going down the rabbit hole.
This is an advanced networking specialty topic.
It is not something that comes up in the Solutions Architect
Associate exam or even in the professional exam.
But it allows you to create, you know,
route traffic to your resources
based on the geographical location of your users
as well as your resources.
And to use geoproximity routing,
you must be using Route 53 traffic flow.
And then finally we have our multivalue answer policy.
And essentially this is the same, as simple-based routing,
except you get health checks.
So you can have multiple values within your record sets.
So we've got our record set in here.
And we got our first and our second.
And if one fails a health check,
what's going to happen?
Well, it's going to remove that from the record set,
or it's going to stop serving that record
until it passes the health check.
So that is it for this section of the course,
you've done very, very well.
The next section we're going to learn all about VPCs,
and that is crucial to passing your
Certified Solutions Architect Associate exam,
and it is actually an awful lot of fun.
So if you've got the time,
please join me in the next lecture, thank you.