= [Ryan] Okay! Hello, Cloud Gurus,
and welcome to this lecture.
Well, congratulations!
You are at the second last lecture in the entire course,
and you've done really, really well,
and you've gone through, in this section,
you created your own serverless website
using API gateway and using lambda.
And then we've also gone on and created an Alexa skill.
And don't worry if you couldn't
get any of those labs to work.
You really just need to understand what lambda is
and what API gateway is at a high level.
I definitely go back and watch the API lecture
in the application section,
just so you get a better grip on it,
but in terms of what you need to know for this section
of the course, and what you need to know for your exam,
you need to remember the different types of architectures
within the cloud.
So, I like to call this "Cloud 1.0."
This is the more traditional approach.
This is where you've got your Elastic Load Balancer
at the front end.
You then got your EC2 instances,
so these would be your web servers,
and then there's storing data in a traditional database,
like RDS.
So, that's a very traditional architecture.
Still is highly available, if you make it that way,
and it can tolerate failure if you architect it correctly.
But, it is limited in how much it can scale.
Yes, you can have auto scaling groups,
but what where you're really gonna start bottlenecking out
is your RDS instances.
And again, it really depends,
if you are using Aurora,
it probably won't bottleneck out as much as if you were
just using a t2.micro with MySQL.
But, it is not as scalable as serverless architecture.
So, serverless architecture typically would consist
of API gateway, lambda function, and then DynamoDB
on the back end.
And you are going to be given a whole bunch
of scenario quizzes, and then you basically ask,
"What is the best way to architect this,
"from both a high availability point of view,
"as well as a cost saving point of view."
And, really, you should be going for
the serverless architecture model.
So, API gateway, lambda, DynamoDB.
So, in terms of my exam tips for lambda,
just remember that it scales out, not up automatically.
So, if you have five triggers,
let's say five people upload five different images
to an S3 bucket,
that's going to trigger five separate lambda functions
at any given time.
Lambda functions are independent,
so one event equals one function.
Remember that lambda is serverless.
Know what services are serverless,
so RDS is not serverless,
with the exception of Aurora Serverless.
Lambda functions can trigger other lambda functions,
so one event can actually equal 10 functions,
or 20 functions, or 50 functions,
or even a million different functions,
if functions are triggering other functions.
Also remember that architectures
can start getting extremely complicated.
AWS X-ray allows you to debug what is happening
inside your serverless application.
And that's all you really need to know
about X-ray for the exam.
Just know what it is.
And then lambda can do things globally,
so you can use it to back up S3 buckets to other S3 buckets.
You can configure your functions to run
at a particular time of day, at a particular time of week,
so, sort of like cron.
You can do a whole bunch of things with lambda.
So, lambda is a global service.
And, really, go in there knowing your triggers,
or even better, know what can't trigger lambda.
So, that is it for this section of the course.
In the next section, I'm gonna wish you best of luck
and I'm gonna show you how you can book your exams.
You guys have done really, really, really well.
I hope you've had a lot of fun doing this course.
I have had a lot of fun teaching it.
Do remember that we are a third party training company,
so if you see something in the exam
that the course hasn't covered,
please let us know and I'll update the course straight away.
So, keep being awesome Cloud Gurus.
I'll see you in the next section,
and best of luck on your exam.